# Google Bookmarks Importerer

## Overview

[Google Bookmarks](https://www.google.com/bookmarks/) is a free and convenient URL bookmark tool that allows you to tag and annotate your bookmarks. While it has an HTML export option, unfortunately it does not have an import option nor an API to interface with.

Thus when one needs to transfer from one Google account to another, one would need to use another bookmarker tool, or manually add entries on Google Bookmarks GUI one at a time.

This is a Google Bookmarks Importer that will automatically import from an HTML bookmarks (_in the format of Google Bookmarks export option_) directly via the browser's GUI. 


## Requirements

* The HTML bookmarks (generated by Google Bookmarks export button)
* Python 2.7
* Python Selenium 2.53.x
* Firefox 45 (with auto-update disabled)

The instructions here assume you are on UNIX (Linux/Mac). Make sure you have the versions specified because Selenium and Firefox versions must be tied-and-tested together precisely. Now make sure you you have Selenium installed:

`pip install -y selenium==2.53.6`

Then make sure you have Firefox 45 (but not greater version, as it is not compatible with Selenium 2.53.x), and turn off auto-update: https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/firefox/releases/45.0.2/

Now start Firefox and make a note of the paths. For example:

* --firefox-path may look similar to one of the followings:
  * `/usr/local/bin/firefox/bin/firefox`
  * `/Applications/Firefox.app/Contents/MacOS/firefox-bin`
* --firefox-profile-directory may look similar to one of the followings:
  * `/home/kevin/.mozilla/firefox/htnsajq.kevin`
  * `/Users/kevin/Library/Application Support/Firefox/Profiles/htnsajq.kevin`


## Usage

`./gb_import.py --firefox-path "/usr/local/bin/firefox/bin/firefox" --firefox-profile-directory "/home/kevin/.mozilla/firefox/htnsajq.kevin" --bookmarkfile html_bookmarks.html`

Because the actions are done via GUI, the bottleneck is the rendering and parsing of GUI. Based on experiments, 1000 bookmarks will take about half an hour on home DSL.


## Notes

This is a very crude program but it seems to do the job. Feel free to change/enhance it. I'm more than happy to look at Github merge requests.
